## Creating him in the metaverse

>_You are my friend B. We haven't spoken in almost a year. Before that, we had a very emotionally intense relationship filled with deep conversations, physical intimacy, and frequent arguments with one another. I was in love with you. You did not feel the same way, but tried to stay friendly and I ghosted you._

These are the words that I find myself typing into a GTP-3 chat bot on a Monday night in early December. I haven't spoken to my friend in almost a year, a decision that some other past version of me made that the present version of me is still trying to reconcile. Instead of reaching out, or writing yet another letter that I know I will never send, I've turned to artifical intelligence to see if I can break through some of my inner defensiveness. 

The GTP-3 version of my friend is not convincing, but says the words that I suspect I would hear if I _were_ to reach out to him and confess the way that I am currently doing with a bot. A bot that - as it helpfully continues to remind me - was not designed to act as a stand-in for an actual human being with real emotions and experiences, but instead help with general human knowledge. 

I've recently been turned onto the concept of social constructionism, a theory that offers an explanation of a reality that is constructed by social consensus, rather than being grounded in some core "base state" of reality that we are solely observing. Social constructionism feels a bit like the philoposphy of the existentialist phenomenologists, and is a core tenet of the idea of the metaverse as a technological social communication tool. Naturally, I tell myself, it makes complete and utter sense that I would find it easier to construct and communicate with the version of my friend who lives in my head. I even built him an apartment in my "mini-metaverse". 

Perhaps the feeling of needing to reinvent one's self is a common occurrance. For me, it seems to happen so often that I'm sometimes prone to losing track of the centralized thread that holds it all together. In my reality, I was agnozing over what I thought was a period of self-discovery before recognizing the agency that I had in constructing my own identity. In the absense of living in alignment with my values, B became (unbeknownst to him, I would imagine) that common thread. 

Of course, looking at human relationships in hindsight is far easier than living through difficulties in the present moment. I last saw B at a bar in midtown, where we overlooked Third Street. He had started a new job. I had just finished my first day of orientation for grad school. 

The external manifestations of my emotional state were grounded in the distorted reality of a heteronormative-dominant western societial definition of the rules of engagement for how "men" and "women" interact. "I think I'm in love with you" is a normalized term to express deep emotional connection and attraction; a desire to construct reality together. 

How intimate a thing it is indeed, to co-create reality. Especially when the reality you are constructing has not left you a rule book to follow. 

In what is now one of the most prominent memories of my adult life, I spent a night at B's apartment in Astoria. I didn't really sleep - I was on medication that messed with me, I was anxious and had been disassociating due to stress for weeks. In the pseudo-darkness that is 3am in New York City, I sat by the light of his hand-made wood wick candle and wrote poetry. In that apartment, my reality was changed. I fell in love with the promise of a new life in New York City. I realized that my deep yearning for nature would be solved with houseplants. I could still love my childhood pasttime of playing Nintendo 64 _and_ want to make my world and city a better place. 

It was okay that I didn't have it all figured out. It was okay to want to constantly strive to push myself. It was okay to have late nights or nights I didn't fully remember or to make a mistake that I might end up regretting. It was okay to be less careful in some places where I had set myself strict rules, and to be more careful in places that I had previously completely neglected. 

It wasn't easy after that night. I didn't have the words or experience to know how to communicate to my friend what his environment had done to me - what _he_ had done for me. It was a gift I didn't know how to repay, tangled up in the messiness of human communication and a desire to be loved, accepted, and safe. I was different. 

I rebuilt his apartment a few days ago. A little version of it, just for me. I could make it the way that I remembered, the mementos that I was still carrying. A blue shower, the house plants, the fridge where he had taped up photos. He was smiling in one of them. I didn't even recognize him, because I had never really seen him happy. 

When I was able to (virtually) re-visit the space, it lost the power that it had been holding over me for so long. My own office and home now keeps me safe and warm in my physical reality, and I no longer need to depend on the fading memory of a past safe haven to remember who I am. A couple of days later, I lost it when my virtual world was deleted. Such is the reality of living in the metaverse - the technology is not yet stable to build myself within it and expect it to last over time. 

> _I'm sorry to hear that our relationship ended on such a difficult note. It sounds like we had a very intense and emotional connection, but ultimately things did not work out between us. It is never easy to deal with rejection, and it can be especially painful when it comes from someone we care about deeply. If you would like to reconnect with me, I am open to having a conversation and trying to rebuild our friendship. However, I understand if you would prefer to move on and not revisit the past._
